---
title: Package types and options
---

# Package types and options

Set package type with `setPackageType($type)`. Retrieve it after with `getPackageType()`. For more details on the
different types of packages: <ApiLink to="#6_A_1" />

## Package types

### Package

`id: 1`

This is the default package type. It must be explicitly set to allow enabling of further shipment options. It's
available for NL, EU and global shipments.

### Mailbox package

`id: 2`

This package type is only available for NL shipments that fit into a mailbox. It does not support additional options.

::: warning

If you still make the request with additional options, bear in mind that you may pay more than the actual shipment
costs!
:::

### Letter

`id: 3`

This package type is available for NL, EU and global shipments. The label for this shipment is unpaid meaning that you
will need to pay the postal office/courier to send this letter/package. Therefore, it does not support additional
options.

### Digital stamp

`id: 4`

This package type is only available for NL shipments and does not support any additional options. Its price is
calculated using the package weight, which is set using `setPhysicalProperties()`.

::: warning

This type of shipment will be billed the moment it is printed. Read more: <ApiLink to="#6_A_1" />
:::

## Package options

These options are only available for package type 1 (`package`).

Available options:

- `only_recipient`: Deliver the package only at address of the intended recipient. This option is required for Morning
  and Evening delivery types.
    - Set: `setOnlyRecipient(true)`
    - Get: `isOnlyRecipient()`
- `signature`: Recipient must sign for the package. This option is required for Pickup delivery type.
    - Set: `setSignature(true)`
    - Get: `isSignature()`
- `return`: Return the package to the sender when the recipient is not home.
    - Set: `setReturn(true)`
    - Get: `isReturn()`
- `large_format`: This option must be specified if the dimensions of the package are between 100 x 70 x 50 and 175 x 78
  x 58 cm. If the scanned dimensions from the carrier indicate that this package is large format, and it has not been
  specified then it will be added to the shipment in the billing process. This option is also available for EU
  shipments.
    - Set: `setLargeFormat(true)`
    - Get: `isLargeFormat()`
- `age_check`: The Customer/Consumer must sign for the package and only receive it when he is at least 18 years.
    - Set: `setAgeCheck(true)`
    - Get: `hasAgeCheck()`
- `insurance`: This option allows a shipment to be insured up to certain amount. NL shipments can be insured for 5000,-
  euros. EU shipments must be insured for 500,- euros. Global shipments must be insured for 200,- euros. The following
  shipment options are mandatory when insuring an NL shipment: `only_recipient` and `signature`.
    - Set: `setInsurance(250)` (amount in EUR)
    - Get: `getInsurance()`

### Example

Package type `package` with all shipment options:

```php
(new PostNLConsignment())
    ->setPackageType(1)
    // Other options...
    ->setOnlyRecipient(true)
    ->setSignature(true)
    ->setReturn(true)
    ->setLargeFormat(true)
    ->setAgeCheck(true)
    ->setInsurance(250);
```

Package type `digital_stamp`, with mandatory weight:

```php
(new PostNLConsignment())
    ->setPackageType(4)
    // weight in grams (required)
    ->setPhysicalProperties(['weight' => 300]);
```

More information: <ApiLink to="#6_A_3" />
