---
title: Webhooks
---

# Webhooks

You can use our webhooks to receive data in the most efficient way.

::: note
Most endpoints do not send a lot of data in the payload. The payload is more
like a notification with a few properties to allow you to decide to proceed to
send another request or not.
:::

## Prerequisites

- Your website must have HTTPS

## Registering a webhook

Register a webhook by instantiating the `WebhookWebService` you want, passing
your api key and executing `subscribe` with the URL on your website you want to
receive the payloads. You can only have one subscription to each webhook.

```php
$service = new \MyParcelNL\Sdk\src\Services\Web\Webhook\ShipmentStatusChangeWebhookWebService();

$webhookId = $service
    ->setApiKey('base64-encoded-api-key')
    ->subscribe('https://mywebsite.com/path/to/webhook');

// Save $webhookId somewhere safe.
```

::: note
`ShipmentStatusChangeWebhookWebService` can be any of the services described
in [Available Webhooks](#available-webhooks).
:::

## Deleting a webhook

To delete a webhook, you need to pass your API key and the numeric id you've
received when registering the webhook.

```php
$service = new \MyParcelNL\Sdk\src\Services\Web\Webhook\ShipmentStatusChangeWebhookWebService();

$service
    ->setApiKey('base64-encoded-api-key')
    ->unsubscribe($webhookId);
```

::: tip
In case you lost the ID, you can do an authenticated call
to `https://api.myparcel.nl/webhook_subscriptions` to retrieve it. You can also
subscribe to the same endpoint again, which will remove the old subscription.
:::

## Available webhooks

### ShipmentStatusChange

Triggered when any shipment's status changes. This is the recommended way to
keep track of shipment statuses.

`\MyParcelNL\Sdk\src\Services\Web\Webhook\ShipmentStatusChangeWebhookWebService`

::: tip
More information: <ApiLink to="#11_B" />
:::

### ShipmentLabelCreated

Triggered when any label is printed/created.

`\MyParcelNL\Sdk\src\Services\Web\Webhook\ShipmentLabelCreatedWebhookWebService`

::: tip
More information: <ApiLink to="#11_C" />
:::

### ShopUpdated

Triggered when the shop is updated.

`\MyParcelNL\Sdk\src\Services\Web\Webhook\ShopUpdatedWebhookWebService`

#### Response

Example: After saving the "General Settings" section in the backoffice.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "hooks": [
      {
        "shop_id": 12345,
        "attributes": [
          "general_settings",
          "modified"
        ],
        "event": "shop_updated"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### ShopCarrierConfigurationUpdated

`\MyParcelNL\Sdk\src\Services\Web\Webhook\ShopCarrierConfigurationUpdatedWebhookWebService`

Triggered when the carrier configuration in a shop is updated, for example when
a different drop-off point is selected.

#### Response

Example: After changing the default drop-off time for PostNL from `16:00`
to `16:30`.

```json
{
  "data": {
    "hooks": [
      {
        "shop_id": 58585,
        "event": "shop_carrier_configuration_updated"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### ShopCarrierAccessibilityUpdated

`\MyParcelNL\Sdk\src\Services\Web\Webhook\ShopCarrierAccessibilityUpdatedWebhookWebService`

#### Response

Example: After disabling a carrier in the backoffice.

```php
{
  "data": {
    "hooks": [
      {
        "shop_id": 12345,
        "event": "shop_carrier_accessibility_updated"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
